Readme.md, before:

#js-calendar

A JavaScript calendar days generator for datepickers and apps where weekdays are needed.

---

## install

    npm install js-calendar

## components

	- Generator - the main "Core" feature, a function to generate calendar days for the requested month
	- addLabels - the default iterator that adds basic CSS classes to each day object and labels for column head

# jsCalendar.generator

## usage

	// require it
	var jsCalendar = require('js-calendar');
	// configure it
	var generator = new jsCalendar.Generator({onlyDays: false, weekStart: 1, lang: 'en'});
	// use it
	var january = generator(year, month, iteratorFn);

#### configuration object:

The configuration object has 3 keys, all optional. Calling a new instance is usefull to cache for example different languages. The options are:

1. onlyDays - (boolean) generate only days and no labels or week numbers. When not specified it will default to `false`;
2. weekStart - (number) the starting day of the week. Can be `0` for sunday or `1` for monday. When not specified it will default to `1`;
3. language - (string) the language of the result. This is usefull in the iterator functions, the generator itself does not use it;

#### usage arguments:

1. year - (number) the year
2. month - (number) the month, zero based (ie. january is month number `0`).
3. iteratorFns - a function (or array of functions) to be used while iterating each day
	
Note:
The default language is English.

#### the generator returns:

* (*object*) O object with keys:

	* (*month*) The generated month.
	* (*year*) The generated year.
	* (*cells*) A array with objects as passed to the iterator function above.
	* (*daysInMonth*) The number of days in the month.
	
## iterator funtions(s)

As mentioned above you can pass a iterator function (or array of functions).
The iteration function receives two arguments, a object with the day info and the _lang_ passed to the _generator_ function config. The object receives the following properties:

 - (_desc_) the generated day or week number. Will be set `false` if its a label cell.
 - (_week_) the number of the week in the year
 - (_type_) the type of the iterated object. Can be `weekLabel`, `dayLabel`, `prevMonth`, `nextMonth` or `monthDay`.
 - (_date_) a Date object for that day. Will be set `false` if its a label cell.
 - (_index_) index position in the 8 x 7 position in the return of the callendar.

The _this_ inside the iterator function is set to the _month object_ that the generator will return.
The iterator function(s) must `return` a object, that will override the original object.

# jsCalendar.addLabels

This method adds CSS classes, labels the day-in-week name and ads month name to each day and the month object, in the configured language. It has a `.setLabels` method that receives a object with extra labels/languages to add to the current labels. The default labels do not get re-writen by the `setLabels` method.

# examples:

Get just the days in a month:

	var jsCalendar = require('js-calendar');
	var jsCal = new jsCalendar.Generator({onlyDays: true});
	var januaryDays = jsCal(2016, 0);
	vr totalDays = januaryDays.daysInMonth;	// 29
	var days = januaryDays.cells;
	console.log(januaryDays);
	// 	[
	//     	{"desc":1,"week":6,"type":"monthDay","date":"2016-01-31T23:00:00.000Z","index":5},
	//     	{"desc":2,"week":6,"type":"monthDay","date":"2016-02-01T23:00:00.000Z","index":6},
	//     	etc...

Get days and labels in a month:

	var jsCalendar = require('js-calendar');
	var jsCal = new jsCalendar.Generator({onlyDays: true});
	var days = jsCal(2016, 1, jsCalendar.addLabels).cells;
	console.log(days);
	// 	[
	//		{"desc":"monday","week":5,"type":"weekLabel","date":false,"index":1,"class":["week-number"]},
	//		{"desc":"tuesday","week":5,"type":"dayLabel","date":false,"index":2,"class":["column-name"]},
	//		etc...

Compile HTML with jade
	
## testing

js-calendar uses [mocha](http://mochajs.org/). To run the tests do in your command line:

    npm install
	npm test

## todo:

	- add even more tests
	- add more usefull iterator function for standard uses
	- add more examples like jade compiler or some other use case

Commit message:

small refactor, add year in return object

Readme.md, after:

#js-calendar

A JavaScript calendar days generator for datepickers and apps where weekdays are needed.

---

## install

    npm install js-calendar

## components

	- Generator - the main "Core" feature, a function to generate calendar days for the requested month
	- addLabels - the default iterator that adds basic CSS classes to each day object and labels for column head

# jsCalendar.generator

## usage

	// require it
	var jsCalendar = require('js-calendar');
	// configure it
	var generator = new jsCalendar.Generator({onlyDays: false, weekStart: 1, lang: 'en'});
	// use it
	var january = generator(year, month, iteratorFn);

#### configuration object:

The configuration object has 3 keys, all optional. Calling a new instance is usefull to cache for example different languages. The options are:

1. onlyDays - (boolean) generate only days and no labels or week numbers. When not specified it will default to `false`;
2. weekStart - (number) the starting day of the week. Can be `0` for sunday or `1` for monday. When not specified it will default to `1`;
3. language - (string) the language of the result. This is usefull in the iterator functions, the generator itself does not use it;

#### usage arguments:

1. year - (number) the year
2. month - (number) the month, zero based (ie. january is month number `0`).
3. iteratorFns - a function (or array of functions) to be used while iterating each day
	
Note:
The default language is English.

#### the generator returns:

* (*object*) O object with keys:

	* (*month*) The generated month.
	* (*year*) The generated year.
	* (*cells*) A array with objects as passed to the iterator function above.
	* (*daysInMonth*) The number of days in the month.
	
## iterator funtions(s)

As mentioned above you can pass a iterator function (or array of functions).
The iteration function receives two arguments, a object with the day info and the _lang_ passed to the _generator_ function config. The object receives the following properties:

 - (_desc_) the generated day or week number. Will be set `false` if its a label cell.
 - (_week_) the number of the week in the year
 - (_type_) the type of the iterated object. Can be `weekLabel`, `dayLabel`, `prevMonth`, `nextMonth` or `monthDay`.
 - (_date_) a Date object for that day. Will be set `false` if its a label cell.
 - (_year_) the year of the specific Date or week label.
 - (_index_) index position in the 8 x 7 position in the return of the callendar.

The _this_ inside the iterator function is set to the _month object_ that the generator will return.
The iterator function(s) must `return` a object, that will override the original object.

# jsCalendar.addLabels

This method adds CSS classes, labels the day-in-week name and ads month name to each day and the month object, in the configured language. It has a `.setLabels` method that receives a object with extra labels/languages to add to the current labels. The default labels do not get re-writen by the `setLabels` method.

# examples:

Get just the days in a month:

	var jsCalendar = require('js-calendar');
	var jsCal = new jsCalendar.Generator({onlyDays: true});
	var januaryDays = jsCal(2016, 0);
	vr totalDays = januaryDays.daysInMonth;	// 29
	var days = januaryDays.cells;
	console.log(januaryDays);
	// 	[
	//     	{"desc":1,"week":6,"type":"monthDay","date":"2016-01-31T23:00:00.000Z","index":5},
	//     	{"desc":2,"week":6,"type":"monthDay","date":"2016-02-01T23:00:00.000Z","index":6},
	//     	etc...

Get days and labels in a month:

	var jsCalendar = require('js-calendar');
	var jsCal = new jsCalendar.Generator({onlyDays: true});
	var days = jsCal(2016, 1, jsCalendar.addLabels).cells;
	console.log(days);
	// 	[
	//		{"desc":"monday","week":5,"type":"weekLabel","date":false,"index":1,"class":["week-number"]},
	//		{"desc":"tuesday","week":5,"type":"dayLabel","date":false,"index":2,"class":["column-name"]},
	//		etc...

Compile HTML with jade
	
## testing

js-calendar uses [mocha](http://mochajs.org/). To run the tests do in your command line:

    npm install
	npm test

## todo:

	- add even more tests
	- add more usefull iterator function for standard uses
	- add more examples like jade compiler or some other use case
